3 Aug 2004

Inquiry (Enqu\^ete) into the effect of the heat wave (la canicule),
one year later.  One year after the heat wave which pulled (a
entra\"in\'e), according to the official assessment, the
over-mortality (? surmortalit\'e) of 14,802 people during the first
fortnight (la quinzaine) of the month of August 2003, "Le Monde"
carried out an inquiry into the fallen (les retomb\'ees) of this drama
(ce drame).  On the political level, many (nombreuses) lessons were
drawn: a "national heat wave plan" saw the day, founding (instaurant)
a permanent medical and climatic system during the summer.  The
economic consequences are numerous.

The problems (d\'em\^el\'es) of the Ioukos (Siberian people?) thowing
the world market (le march\'e mondial) into an oil panic (affoler = to
throw into a panic).  The uncertainty in the future of the leading
Russian hydrocarbon company (la compagnie phare) adds (s'ajoute) to
the tensions of the Near (Proche) and Middle East, to the terrorist
menace on the provisioning and demand of emerging countries such as
(tels que) China, provoking a flaire (une flamb\'ee) in prices.

Put under examination (en examen), Jean-Charles Marchiani was
incarcerated.  The ex-prefect of the VAr (du Var) was placed in
provisional detention in the "VIP" section of house arrest for health
(? la maison d'arr\^et de la Sant\'e).  His lawyer denounced a
"payment of counts between former ministers and between services."

"All is being done so that no one got hot this year!" (official
shaking hands with old people)--- "especially (surtout) not the
government" (his aid).

George Bush will nominate a coordinator of intelligence (le
renseignement).  The leader of the White House again takes
responsibility (reprend \`a son compte) of a recommendation of the
inquiry commision into the attacks (attentats) of September 11th.

The arrest (arrestation) of a computer scientist (informaticien) in
Pakistan would have (aurait) alerted Washington.  It's the discrete
arrest, on July 13 in Lahore, capital of the province of Pendjab, of a
young engineer in computer science who has, so it seems (semble-t-il),
led the United States to re-raise the level (le niveau) of alert near
financial centers or institutions in New York and Washington.  The
real name of this computer scientist, who calls himself Naeem Noor
Khan or Abou Talha, hasn't been released by the Pakistani inqirers,
which suffice to say (contentent de dire) is an important link and was
researched.  Mr. Khan, graduate (dipl\^om\'e) of the University of
Karachi, usually (couramment) speaks in English and would have
participated in the evaluation of potential targets in the United
States and Europe.  He has, like many of his peers (pairs), followed a
military training (un entra\^inement militaire) in a camp in
Afghanistan in 1998.

Mr. Khan was at the center of a network (r\'eseau) of information and
transmitted through the Internet (par l'interm\'ediaire d'Internet)
coded orders coming from leaders who he possibly didn't know to other
intermediaries in the world.  According to specialists, the computer
est becoming the best means (le meilleur moyen) of communication
between Al-Qaida members, who also often (souvent) e-mail change
address of mobile telephones.  In Pakistan, the members of the
extremist Islamic network (r\'eseaux) also use many SMS codes, more
difficult to detect (plus difficilement d\'etectables).

Israel decides to reinforce the colonization in the West Bank
(Cisjordanie)

Iraq: a Turkish hostage was killed by his kidnappers (ravisseurs),
taken away by foreigners (des \'etrangers enlev\'es)

J. Yacoub: "A catastrophie for the relationship (les rapports) between
West and East".  You have published in March 2003 _Menaces to the
Christians of Iraq_.  What is for you the significance of the attacks
which have targeted (pris pour cible) the Christian community of this
country?

It's the first time that the places of worship (lieux de culte),
represented by the assembly Churches (l'ensemble des Eglises)---
Chalean, Syriac, Armenian, Nestorian, etc.--- were touched and at the
same time.  And this in the three cities most symbolic of Christian
Iraq: Bagdad, central place of the patriarchs, Mossoul and Kirkouk,
which are among (parmi) the oldest Christian cities in the world.

The attacks also being well organized and coordinated has a precise
ideological function: to reduce (r\'eduire) the Christian influence,
already limited (f\^ut-elle limit\'ee), in the authority (instances)
of the government and the preparation of elections, break (briser) the
liturgical, cultural, and intellectual revival (renouveau) of the
Churches.  I won't cite (citerai) that the example of the review
Al-fiqr Al-Masihi (Christian Thought), whcih counts already 10,000
subscribers (acheteurs), therefore a quarter of Muslims!

To whom do you attribute the responsibility of such attacks?  I
exclude (exclure, J'exclus) the old authors of the Iraqi nationalist
movements.  They can only possibly be resulting (Ils ne peuvent \^etre
issus que) from ranks (rangs) of fanatical Muslims, for whom it is no
longer necessary there (y)to have Christians on that land and who want
to increase (accro\^itre) the confusion (mixture? amalgrame) between
Christians of Iraq and Christians of the West, primarily (au premier
rang desquels) the Americans.

What is the width (ampleur) of this Christian exodus?  Under (sous)
Sadam Hussein, people exagerated the weight (le poids) of the
Christians.  The dictator tolerated them, but hardly (gu\`ere) more
than the other denominations (confessions).  Their activity was
limited to a strictly religous scope (un cadre) and was controlled by
the Ba'athist (baas) regieme.  As soon as (d\`es que) they would
exceed (d\'epasser, d\'epassaient) this scope, the Christians were
persecuted.  350,000 left Irac in 1961, that's to say during the
Kurdish revolt.  They began to emigrate to the North through the
cities, then descended again a little more in Bagdad, to take then
(ensuite) the road to exile.  They were a million in 1961.  They live
today in Detroit (70,000), Chicago, etc.  The emigration became more
massive again from (\`a partir de) the embargo beginning in the
ninties (des ann\'ees 1990), which made 250,000 Christians flee
(fuir).  This movement was idle (ralenti) durring the fall of Saddam
Hussein, but the exodus began again (a repris) during March because of
the chaos.

The exodus is serious.  The Christian of Iraq asserts (revendique) his
roots (ses racines) in ancient Assyria and Babylonia.  Iraq is his
land.  This isn't a foreigner, nor a convert of Jesuit or Protestant
missions.  He was Christian for two thousand years, that's to say
during the evangelisation by Thomas the Apostle of Mesopotamia.  The
first Churches in the North in Mossoul date from the second century.

This Chistian is proud (fier, fi\`ere).  His presence is easily
earlier than that of Islam.  He has always participated in the
political and cultural life of the country, translated (traduit) Greek
literature, serving (servi) as a bridge between East and West.  It is
these (Ce sont les...) Chistians who translated in Iraq the works of
the West and it is they (ce sont eux) who made known in the West the
richness of Arabic literature, Christian or Muslim.  Yes, these last
(ces dernier) attackers have a catastrophie for the relationship
between West and East, between Islam and Christianity.

The United Nations discovers three mass graves (charniers) in the
north of the Ivory Coast.

A wave (une vague) of abductions (enl\`evements) of children touches the
south of China

John Kerry wants to "restore (restaurer) the credibility of the White
House"

Near-East (Proche-Orient): three Palestinians die by a machine gun
shooting (un tir d'obus, a shooting of shells)

The NATO reinforcements slow on arriving in Afghanistan

The Americans intensify their pressure (pressions) on Iran

364 die in the fire (incendie) in the commercial center of Asuncion

Pakistan: arrest of a member of Al-Quaida who menaced the United
States

The Soudanaise Army consider the resolution of the UNO as "a
declaration of war"

Kigali wants to "prove" the involvement (implication) of France in the
genocide of 1994

Turkmenistan returns (renvoie) the representative of SOEC

Spectacular discovery of the matter/antimater difference: a
spectacular difference of behavior (comportement) between matter and
antimatter, which constitutes (constitu\'e) a new step (un pas) in the
"explaination" of hte disappearance of antimatter, came from (vient
d') being discovered by the physicists of the BaBar experiment
(exp\'erience), at SLAC in California, announced Tuesday by CNRS.
These results, signified by some of the 600 physicists of the
collaboration, French among them (parmi lesquels des Fran\cais), will
need to be published thsee days by the review PRL.  At SLAC, in the
PEP-II accelerator, the physicists provoke (provoquent) collisions
between electrons and positrons (the positron is the antiparticle of
the electron), which produces, in pairs, B mesons and anti-B mesons.
These particles decay (se d\'esint\`egrent) into their daughter
particles (? leur tour des particules) such as pions and kaons (mesons
also (\'egalement), that's to say particles composed of a quark and an
antiquark), which were detected by BaBar (? que d\'etecte BaBar).  In
studying the decays of more than 200 million paris of B and anti-B,
the researchers (chercheurs) of BaBar have found 910 decays of B
mesons into a kaon and a pion, against only 696 decays of anti-B,
which (ce qui) indicates a clear effect (fa\con) of asymmetry in behavior
between matter and antimatter.  "It's the first time, emphasized
(soulignent) SLAC and CNRS, that a difference appeared in the simple
sytem (? le comptage) of decays of B and anti-B mesons...  Besides (en
outre) this observation, which shows (montre, montrer) a decay
frequency of the B meson overtaking (d\'epassant) by 13% that of the
anti-B meson, reveals (r\'ev\`ele) a much more important
effect... that which procudes a similar effect with the kaons", they
noted (noter) again.

9 Aug 2004

European suspicion on the American alerts.  The people in charge of
antiterrorism fear (craindre, craignais) that the White House decision
to raise the level (le niveau) of alarm in the face of (face \`a) a
menace were influenced by the immanence (\'ech\'eance) of the
presidential election, the second of November.  "Le Monde" lead an
inquiry into the mobilization (mobilisation) of the European
intelligence (renseignement) services.  If they fear (redoutent) to
release (d\'eclencher) a climate of fear (psychose), they don't hide,
however, their anxiety (inqui\'etude).

Prices raise, deficit of welcome (accueil): the summer season (la
saison estivale) is half-tainted (en demi-teinte).  The balance (le
bilan) at the begining of the summer is lukewarm (marginal? mitig\'e)
in France, while (alors que) the year was marked by no oil slicks (par
aucune mar\'ee noire), nor the cancelling (la'annulation) of
festival.  The exchange, by the Internet, of apartments (le'logements)
for for vacations knew a lively (vif) success.

Military landings (D\'ebarquement) of Provence: the right spear (la
lance) a war of memories.  The coming (la venue) of the Algerian
president to the organized ceremonies of 15 Aug at Toulon (Var) for
the 60th anniversary of the landing in Provence makes the object of a
controversy on the right.

The European services don't hide their concerns (preoccupations)

Interview (entretien) with Koen Dassen, on State Security in Belgium

The plan (le sch\'ema) of the European collaboration gets more and
more complex

London would love to hold back a portion of the United States in the
alerts???  The Blair government fears the counter-productive effect of
an excessive m\'ediatisation.  (very indirectly, with unclear
language)

An American study sketches (esquisse) the profile-type of the Al-Qaida
terrorist

An American newspaper accueses Iraqi police of torture

The provisional government of Iraq re-establishes (r\'etablit) the
death penalty (la peine de mort)

An Iraqi judge spears two warrants of arrest (mandats d'arr\^et)

A Turkish video of decapitation is passed on the Internet

The ghost of Nick Berg

The abduction (le'enl\`evement) of an Iranian diplomat in Kerbala
intensifies (avive) tensions

The former Apartheid party merges (fusionne) with the African National
Congress to those in power (au pouvoir)

State of siege in P\'ekin for a electrified China-Japan soccer match

France and the Arabic countries takeon Darfour with prudence

Mobilization of the partisans and opponents to the president Chavez
before the referendum

Mortal (mortel) accident in a nuclear center in Japan

The outcome (le bilan) of the monsoon deteriorated (pourrir) to reach
(atteindre) 2000 deaths in the Indian subcontinent

The Vatican increased (hausse) its tone (le ton) against feminism and
homosexuality

At the Abou Ghraib prison reined (r\'egner) an extreme violence, fear
and impunity

The Democrats increase their tone against George W. Bush

China intensities the repression in the Muslim West

In Brasil, the civil disarmament knows a lightning start (d\'emarrage
fulgurant)

John Kerry recieves the support of 200 employers (patrons)

11 Aug



